>> Bianca Gandolfo: So this is
an interesting one, it's a little bit
different than our contiguous
block data structures.
It doesn't really have a one-to-one
mental model from this
data structure to what we actually think
about while we're coding in JavaScript.
But it is important,
because like I mentioned,
it is an example of how pointers
can be used creatively.
And this is very important in languages
that don't have dynamic arrays.
So JavaScript,
all of our arrays are dynamic,
which means that we don't need to
set the size, it just changes.
Linked list is pretty much how
you implement a dynamic array.
So if you were going to traverse or
loop from 5 to 10 to 20,
if this was a contiguous block of memory,
this would be index 0,
this would be index 1,
this would be index 2, right?
That's how we would loop through
it just with numbers, really.
For a link list, the way we would loop is
we would say the next one, the next one.
So this is a property called next
that points to another object.
And so this is important because when we
think about assigning values to an object,
we are really just pointing to an object.
That object is not living in
memory inside that variable,
that variable has
a pointer to that object.
If you assign another variable,
that pointer is now pointing to that same
object, but there's only one object.
And so that's what we say by reference,
cuz we're referring to that object.
So you could have a bunch of
different variable names, or
you could pass it into a function,
but it's all the same object.
However, and that's not true for primitive
types like strings or numbers, right?
If you say x equals 1 and b equals 2, or
x equals 1 and b equals 1,
those are two different
things, and it's actually
stored differently in memory.
And so if I change x to 2, b is still 1,
right, everyone would expect that?
However, if x is pointing to an object and
b is pointing to an object, and
we changed that object, the internals of
that object, both of them will be changed.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Someone asked
me a question about that, yeah.
>> Student: [COUGH] Is that because
inheritance of that, or is that just?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's because
of the way we store data in memory.
So inheritance is different because,
well so the interesting thing about
your question is that inheritance,
like prototypal inheritance works
because of this concept of by reference.
So inheritance, we're all sharing objects,
right, we're sharing the same object.
If you're not careful you
can change this object, and
you could have consequences
somewhere else.
And that's something to think about
when you're mutating your data,
like in your life, right?
If you're changing your object,
it's gonna be changed everywhere.
And this is the classic problem of if this
widget needs this object, and this widget
needs this object, but this has this
value, you don't want this one to change.
But you update this one, and that one
updates also, that can be a problem.
>> Student2: This is what people talk
about when they talk about shallow copies
and deep copies in JavaScript, right?
Where in order to, no?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No.
>> Student2: This is not what, okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No, so
a shallow copy just means that, so
if you have a nested data structure, a
shallow copy will only copy the top level.
It won't copy the children if it's nested,
so that's a shallow copy.
A deep copy will loop through into
all of the children recursively.
And if you use a r flag in the terminal,
that's a recursive,
that means it will go through all of them.
Similarly with copying, same idea, except-
>> Student3: And nested lists, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What?
>> Student3: Nested lists,
is that what you're talking about?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes, exactly, exactly.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
back to the linked list thing.
So linked lists,
another sequential data structure.
It's important to note what's
sequential and what's not.
Because that will prepresent constraints
for what you can use it for,
what you can't use it for.
So the size is dynamic, and that's
really powerful in some environments.
In a JavaScript environment, we already
have that for free, which is nice.
But in other languages, you might
have to think about that actively.
We can do quick deletions from the middle.
Just like that unshift example with
the queue that I was talking about before.
Where if you remove
something from the front,
you would then need to move
all of the indices over.
The same thing could happen if you
deleted a node in the middle of an array,
everything on the back would
need to be shifted over.
And so with a linked list,
we don't need to worry about that.
Because we would just move
the pointer to something else,
and it doesn't affect it, mm-hm.
>> Student: [COUGH] Isn't
it true you still have to
traverse the list to get there?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah so that's-
>> Student: You know what I mean, so
that takes time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So the find for
a link list is much slower.
But if you have a reference to
the node that you wanna delete, or
even just the node before it or
something, then it's constant.
But yeah, the searching part is gonna
be slower, and that's one of the cons.
Is if you're looking for
a particular value, that can take a while.
Versus an array, we can go directly to
an index, if you're looking up a key.
If you're looking up a value, right,
you still need to loop through everything.
Unless is sorted, in which case there
are other ways we could go about it.